Section I

General Provisions

Article 1

1. The Republic of Kazakhstan proclaims itself a democratic, secular, legal and social state, the supreme values of which are the individual, his or her life, rights and freedoms.

2. The basic principles of the activity of the Republic shall be public harmony and political stability, economic development for the benefit of the whole nation, Kazakh patriotism and resolution of the most critical issues of state affairs by democratic methods, including voting by republican referendum or in Parliament.  

Footnote: See Resolution No. 18/2 of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 21 December 2001.
 

Article 2

1. The Republic of Kazakhstan is a unitary state with a presidential form of government.

2. The sovereignty of the Republic shall extend over its entire territory. The state shall ensure the integrity, inviolability and inalienability of its territory.

3. The administrative-territorial structure of the Republic and the status of its capital shall be determined by law. The capital of Kazakhstan shall be the city of Astana.

3-1. A special legal regime in the financial sphere may be established within the boundaries of the city of Astana in accordance with the constitutional law.

4. The names "Republic of Kazakhstan" and "Kazakhstan" shall be equal.

Footnote: See Resolution No. 4 of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 23 April 2003.
Footnote: Article 2 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III of 21 May 2007 (in force from the date of its official publication); No. 51-VI of 10 March 2017 (in force from the date of its first official publication); No. 238-VI of 23 March 2019 (in force from the date of its first official publication); No. 142-VII of 17 September 2022 (in force from the date of its first official publication).
 

Article 3

1. The people shall be the sole source of governmental power.

2. The people shall exercise their power directly through republican referendum and free elections, and shall delegate the exercise of their powers to state institutions.

3. No one shall have the right to arrogate power in the Republic of Kazakhstan. Arrogation of power shall be punished by law. The right to act on behalf of the people and the state shall be vested in the President of the Republic and the Parliament of the Republic within the limits of their constitutional powers. The Government of the Republic and other state bodies shall act on behalf of the state only within the limits of the powers delegated to them.

4. State power in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be unified and shall be exercised on the basis of the Constitution and laws in accordance with the principle of its division into legislative, executive and judicial powers and their interaction using the system of checks and balances.

Footnote. See Resolution No. 1/2 of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 12 April 2001.
 

Article 4

1. The provisions of the Constitution, laws adopted in accordance with it, other regulatory legal acts, international treaties and other obligations of the Republic, as well as regulatory decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic shall be valid law in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Note. In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 8 June 2022, regulatory decisions of the Constitutional Council, if they do not contradict the Constitution, shall be applied until they are reviewed by the Constitutional Court.

2. The Constitution shall have supreme legal force and direct effect throughout the territory of the Republic.

3. International treaties ratified by the Republic shall take precedence over its laws. The procedure and conditions for implementing international treaties to which Kazakhstan is a party on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be determined by the laws of the Republic.

4. All laws and international treaties to which the Republic is a party shall be published. Official publication of normative legal acts concerning rights, freedoms and duties of citizens shall be a necessary condition for their application.

Footnote. See Resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 18/2 of 11 October 2000; No. 6 of 5 November 2009.
Footnote. Article 4 as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 51-VI of 10 March 2017 (in force from the date of its first official publication); of 08 June 2022 (in force from 01 January 2023).

